# Tutorials for tired eyes

A website for learning about git, Vim and other command line tools.

## License

All material is copyright (C) 2017 Thomas H. Muggleton, except where explicitly
stated otherwise.

All rights are reserved for the content of the website; with the exception of
code snippets, which are licensed under the GNU General Public License (see
below), nothing contained in Markdown files, i.e. files with a .md extension,
none of the images, and none of the content which appears on the website should
be reproduced without permission.

All of the code in this repository that is used to generate the website and
code included in the content of the website is free software: you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of version 3 of the GNU
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation.  Where
code has been included in this project that was written by others, the source
and licensing is indicated in the relevant files.

This website and the contents of this repository are distributed in the hope
that they will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  For more
details, see the GNU General Public License, available at:
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/

Any trademark that appears in the source code or content of this website is the
property of its owner.

The presence of a trademark, a trading name, or the name of an individual does
not imply endorsement of this website or its author by any associated
organisation or individual.

The presence of a trademark, a trading name, or the name of an individual does
not necessarily imply endorsement of associated organisations or individuals by
this website or its author.

The views expressed on this website are those of the author alone and do not
represent the views of any organisation with which this website or its author
might be associated.

If any of the provisions in this license are deemed to be invalid, the
remaining provisions are still considered valid and unaffected.
