---
layout: default
category: about
position_in_category: 3
---
## {{ page.title }}

### Definitions
- "I" and "author" refers to the author of this website, Thomas H. Muggleton.
- "You" refers to anyone who is using, or has used, this website for any
  purpose.

### Limitation of liability

While I have tried to ensure that the information on this site is accurate, I
make no guarantees to this effect; **you make use of this website and the
information contained on it ENTIRELY AT YOUR OWN RISK**.

As stated on the [License](../license) page, **the code on this website comes
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE**.  For more details, see the GNU General
Public License, available at: <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>

I take no responsibility for the content or views expressed on other websites
that are linked to from this website.

### Endorsements

**This website is not endorsed by any 3rd parties and any views expressed are
those of the author alone.**

The presence of a trademark, a trading name, or the name of an individual on
this website does not imply endorsement of this website or its author by any
associated organisation or individual.

The presence of a trademark, a trading name, or the name of an individual on
this website does not imply endorsement of associated organisations or
individuals by this website or its author.

The presence of a link to an external website does not imply endorsement of the
author or the content of that website, or the views expressed on that website,
by this website or the author of this website.

The views expressed on this website are those of the author alone and do not
represent the views of any organisation with which this website or its author
might be associated.

### Acceptable use

There are certain things to which I object for various reasons and, if possible,
I would prefer not to contribute to them in even the smallest way.  I would
thus ask that you respect this and avoid using this website if you are involved
directly or indirectly in any of the following:
- wilful environmental destruction, including, but not limited to, fracking
  and/or lobbying for the continued use of non-renewable energy sources;
- the manufacture and/or distribution of armaments;
- human trafficking and/or slavery;
- crimes against humanity;
- financial institutions which invest in any of the above.

### Invalid provisions

If any of the provisions in these terms are deemed to be invalid, the remaining
provisions are still considered valid and unaffected.
