---
layout: default
category: about
position_in_category: 1

permalink: /:title/
---
## {{ page.title }}

This website contains materials and references to external resources for anyone
wanting to learn about command line tools such as git and Vim.  The general
approach taken has been to try to make these as accessible as possible for a
wide audience.

The nature of the subject matter is such that this website might be of greatest
interest to software developers and system administrators.  However, the hope
is that it is also of use to anyone wanting to get more out of their computer;
specifically, I hope that this website might help a few people to make greater
use of some of the esoteric, but very useful, software that is freely
available.

### Motivations for writing this

The reasons that I decided to create this website are as follows:

- I want to learn more about various command line tools; explaining how to use
  them and/or how they work will improve my own understanding.

- Having a quick and accessible reference for obscure and/or less frequently
  used commands will be helpful to me, and also as a resource to which I can
  point others.

- As stated above, I hope that this website provides an accessible starting
  point for others to learn about the various highly useful, but at times
  intimidating, software that can assist with a variety of day-to-day tasks.

### Why is it called '{{ site.title }}'?

When learning about command line tools, I sometimes feel that certain things
are more difficult than they need to be.  This was particularly true when I was
first getting started.  Having thought about this a bit, I identified some
difficulties facing new users:

- Firstly, software documentation sometimes does not give contextual
  information, such as the problem that the software is solving, why it should
  be used over alternatives, and, perhaps understandably, when it will not be
  useful and the alternatives that should be used instead.  Making informed
  decisions thus relies on existing knowledge of the software and its domain,
  which is problematic if you are not that familiar with either.

- Secondly, software manuals are generally, and necessarily, very dense and
  detailed.  They also sometimes make little or no distinction between things
  that every user will need to know to make use of the software, and things
  that might be useful to a handful of people who have a very specific use
  case.  This can be a significant barrier to entry, since you need to read a
  lot of information that is not relevant to you before getting to something
  useful.

- Thirdly, and conversely, a number of online tutorials will skip essential
  details, give very cursory explanations, or even just list a series of
  commands without attempting to explain what they do.  This is not very
  conducive to learning for a number of reasons; in particular, an incomplete
  understanding is not very satisfying and can make it more difficult to
  remember nuances if these were simply learned by rote.

- Finally, it can be easy to get bogged down in configuration options before
  learning how to do anything useful.  This is particularly problematic when,
  as is generally the case, you come across various different opinions about
  the right way to configure things.  Without having really used the software,
  you have little or no information on which to base decisions about which of
  these competing approaches will work for you.

I have tried to write everything on this site with the above considerations in
mind; each section is introduced by giving some context, an attempt has been
made to keep each section short while also either giving all of the necessary
information or pointing out where to find it, and discussions of custom
configuration have been postponed or ignored in the interest of first
understanding behaviour and functionality with the default configuration.  So,
if any or all of the difficulties identified above have made your eyes tired,
hopefully this site will help you out a bit.

### Author background

My name is Thomas H. Muggleton; most people call me Tommy.  I have been working
as a software engineer for a few years now, having previously been a librarian.
