---
layout: default
category: about
position_in_category: 2
---

## {{ page.title }}

All material on this website is copyright &copy; 2017 Thomas H. Muggleton,
except where explicitly stated otherwise.

All rights are reserved for the content of this website; with the exception of
code snippets, which are licensed under the GNU General Public License (see
below), none of the written content nor any of the images which appear on this
website should be reproduced without permission.

All of the code included in the content of this website is free software: you
can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of version 3 of the GNU
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation.  Where
code is included on this website that was written by others, this is made
explicit, and its source and licensing is indicated alongside it.

The code included on this website has been made available in the hope that it
will be useful, but **WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE**.  For more details, see
the GNU General Public License, available at: <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>

Any trademark that appears on this website is the property of its owner.

The presence of a trademark, a trading name, or the name of an individual on
this website does not imply endorsement of this website or its author by any
associated organisation or individual.

The presence of a trademark, a trading name, or the name of an individual on
this website does not necessarily imply endorsement of associated organisations
or individuals by this website or its author.

The views expressed on this website are those of the author alone and do not
represent the views of any organisation with which this website or its author
might be associated.

If any of the provisions in this license are deemed to be invalid, the
remaining provisions are still considered valid and unaffected.
